DCF-F-2476-E (R. 04/2014)
90-Day Summary Report for Child Death, Serious Injury or Egregious Incident

Reports submitted to the Division of Safety and Permanence (DSP) that do not include all of the required information will be returned to the agency for proper completion. Do not identify individuals by name when completing this report. Individuals may be referenced by relationship or position; e.g., mother, father, child, sibling, physician, detective, etc.

Case Tracking Number: 150109-DSP-Milw-505
Agency: Bureau of Milwaukee Child Welfare

Child Information (at time of incident)

Age: 1 Year 9 Months
Gender: Female Male
Race or Ethnicity: African American/Black
Special Needs: None known

Date of Incident: 01/09/2015

Description of the incident, including the suspected cause of death, injury or egregious abuse or neglect:

On January 10, 2015, the agency received a report regarding a 1 year, 9 month-old child admitted to the hospital with serious head injuries and bruising on his face and body. The child was declared brain dead at the hospital and died from his injuries. Law enforcement was contacted and initiated a criminal investigation regarding the child's death.

As a result of law enforcement's investigation, the friend of the mother's, who was caring for the child at the time of the injuries, was charged with a felony count of 1st-degree reckless homicide. A criminal charge is merely and allegation a and a defendant is considered innocent until proven guilty.

Findings by agency, including maltreatment determination and material circumstances leading to incident:

The agency collaborated with law enforcement and medical personnel to complete the assessment. The Initial Assessment completed by the agency found a preponderance of evidence to substantiate maltreatment of physical abuse to the child by the friend of the mother caring for the child at the time of his injuries. The deceased child's siblings, a five year-old female and seven month-old male, were determined to be safe in the care of their mother and the case was closed.

Yes No Criminal investigation pending or completed?
Yes No Criminal charges filed? If yes, against whom? The friend of the mother who was caring for the child at the time of his injuries.

Child's residence at the time of incident: In-home Out-of-home care placement

Complete the appropriate following section (A. or B. based on the child's residence at the time of the incident).

A. Children residing at home at the time of the incident:

Description of the child's family (includes household members, noncustodial parent and other children that have visitation with the child and / or in the child's family home):

At the time of the incident, the child lived with his mother, his 5 year-old sister and 7 month-old brother.

Yes No Statement of Services: Were services under ch. 48 or ch. 938 being provided to the child, any member of the child's family or alleged maltreater at the time of the incident, including any referrals received by the agency or reports being investigated at time of incident?

If "Yes", briefly describe the type of services, date(s) of last contact between agency and recipient(s) of those services, and the person(s) receiving those services:

N/A

Summary of all involvement in services as adults under ch. 48 or ch. 938 by child's parents or alleged maltreater in the previous five years: (Does not include the current incident.)

N/A

Summary of actions taken by the agency under ch. 48, including any investigation of a report or referrals to services involving the child, any member of the child's family living in this household and the child's parents and alleged maltreater. (Does not include the current incident.)

(Note: Screened out reports listed in this section may include only the date of the report, screening decision, and if a referral to services occurred at Access. Reports that do not constitute a reasonable suspicion of maltreatment or a reason to believe that the child is threatened with harm are not required to be screened in for an initial assessment, and no further action is required by the agency.)

N/A

Summary of any investigation involving the child, any member of the child's family and alleged maltreater conducted under ch. 48 and any services provided to the child and child's family since the date of the incident:

The agency collaborated with law enforcement and medical personnel to complete the assessment. The Initial Assessment completed by the agency found a preponderance of evidence to substantiate maltreatment of physical abuse to the child by the friend of the mother caring for the child at the time of his injuries. The deceased child's siblings, a five-year old female and seven month old male, were determined to be safe in the care of their mother and the case was closed.

B. Children residing in out-of-home care (OHC) placement at time of incident:

Description of the OHC placement and basis for decision to place child there:

N/A

Description of all other persons residing in the OHC placement home:

N/A

Licensing history: Including type of license, duration of license, summary of any violations by licensee or an employee of licensee or other actions that constitute a substantial failure to protect and promote the welfare of the child.

N/A

Summary of any actions taken by agency in response to the incident: (Check all that apply.)

Screening of Access report
Attempted or successful reunification
Protective plan implemented
Referral to services
Initial assessment conducted
Transportation assistance
Safety plan implemented
Collaboration with law enforcement
Temporary physical custody of child
Collaboration with medical professionals
Petitioned for court order / CHIPS (child in need of protection or services)
Supervised visitation
Placement into foster home
Case remains open for services
Placement with relatives
Case closed by agency
Ongoing Services case management
Initiated efforts to address or enhance community collaboration on CA/N cases
Other (describe):

FOR DSP COMPLETION IF RECORD OR ON-SITE REVIEW WAS UNDERTAKEN:

Summary of policy or practice changes to address issues identified based on the record or on-site review of the incident:

N/A

Recommendations for further changes in policies, practices, rules or statutes needed to address identified issues based on the record or on-site review:

None

Yes No Not Applicable This 90-day summary report completes the Division of Safety and Permanence (DSP) action on this case.

If the case review was not completed within 90 days, the DSP will complete and submit the final summary report within 6 months.
