Skip to content

Microsoft wikipedia

Tab
Microsoft wikipedia



RewardsMobile

Search

Copilot

Images

Videos

Maps

News

Shopping

More

Flights

Travel

Hotels

Real Estate

My Bing

Notebook

Tools

Copilot

Your everyday AI companion

About 310,000 results

Any time

Open links in new tab

See more

See all on Wikipedia

Wikipedia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft

Microsoft - Wikipedia

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Redmond, Washington.  Microsoft's best-known software products are the Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft 365 suite of productivity applications, and the Edge web browser. Its flagship … See more

History

1972–1985: Founding
Childhood friends Bill Gates and Paul Allen sought to make a business using their skills in computer… See more

Corporate identity

Corporate culture
Technical references for developers and articles for various Microsoft magazines such as Microsoft … See more

External links

• Official website
• Business data for Microsoft Corporation:
• Microsoft companies grouped at OpenCorporates See more

Corporate affairs

Board of directors
The company is run by a board of directors made up of mostly company outsiders, as is customary for publicly traded companies. Members of the board of directors as of December 2023 are Satya Nadella See more

See also

• List of Microsoft software
• Microsoft hardware
• List of mergers and acquisitions by Microsoft See more

From Wikipedia

Content

History

Corporate affairs

Corporate identity

See also

External links

See all sections



Wikipedia text under CC-BY-SA license

Feedback
Thanks!Tell us more

Wikipedia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Microsoft

History of Microsoft - Wikipedia

Overview

1975–1985: The founding of Microsoft

1985–1994: Windows and Office

1995–2007: Foray into the Web, Windows 95, Windows XP, and Xbox

2007–2011: Microsoft Azure, Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Microsoft Stores

2011–2014: Windows 8, Xbox One, Outlook.com, and Surface devices

2014–2020: Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, Microsoft Edge and HoloLens

2020–present: Acquisitions, Xbox Series X/S, and Windows 11

Microsoft is a multinational computer technology corporation. Microsoft was founded on April 4, 1975, by Bill Gates and Paul Allen in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  Its current best-selling products are the Microsoft Windows operating system; Microsoft Office, a suite of productivity software; Xbox, a line of entertainment of games, music, and video; Bing, a line of search engines; and Microsoft Azure, …

Wikipedia · Text under CC-BY-SA license

Explore further

A Brief History of Microsoft - The Worlds Biggest Software …

content.dsp.co.uk

Timeline of Microsoft - Wikipedia

en.wikipedia.org

Recommended to you based on what's popular • Feedback

Wikipedia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_…

Microsoft Windows - Wikipedia

WEBMicrosoft Windows is a product line of proprietary graphical operating systems developed and marketed by Microsoft. It is grouped into families …

Developer: Microsoft

Latest release: 22H2 (10.0.22621.2428) (October 10, 2023; 0 days ago) [±]

Initial release: November 20, 1985; 37 years ago

Explore further

Which version of Windows operating system am I running?

support.microsoft.com

A History of Microsoft Windows - Timeline

thewindowsclub.com

Recommended to you based on what's popular • Feedback

Wikipedia

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft

Microsoft - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Software

Services

Hardware


Microsoft Windows is an operating system, which means that it is the basic software that makes people's computers work and lets other programs work. The majority of desktop and laptop computers run...

Microsoft Office is an office suite. It lets people write documents on their computer with Microsoft Word, make charts and graphs with Microsoft Excel, make presentations with Micr…


Microsoft Windows is an operating system, which means that it is the basic software that makes people's computers work and lets other programs work. The majority of desktop and laptop computers run...

Microsoft Office is an office suite. It lets people write documents on their computer with Microsoft Word, make charts and graphs with Microsoft Excel, make presentations with Microsoft PowerPoint,...

Internet Explorer is a piece of software that lets people look at things online (known as browsing) and download things from the Internet. In 2015, it was replaced by Microsoft Edge.

Microsoft also makes other programs for the Internet. Many of them are called Windows Live services, with the name Windows Live put in front of the old name of the service, like Window…

See more
New content will be added above the current area of focus upon selection

See more on simple.wikipedia.org

Type: Public

ISIN: US5949181045

People also ask

What is Microsoft's history?

Microsoft was founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen on April 4, 1975, to develop and sell BASIC interpreters for the Altair 8800. It rose to dominate the personal computer operating system market with MS-DOS in the mid-1980s, followed by Windows.

Microsoft - Wikipedia

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft

What are Microsoft's main products?

Its best-known software products are the Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft Office suite, and the Internet Explorer and Edge web browsers. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox video game consoles and the Microsoft Surface lineup of touchscreen personal computers.

Microsoft - Wikipedia

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft

What services does Microsoft offer?

Microsoft offers a variety of services, such as Azure, Bing, LinkedIn, Yammer, MSDN, Microsoft 365, OneDrive, Outlook.com, GitHub, TechNet, Pay, Microsoft Store, Windows Update, Xbox Game Pass and Xbox network. How to write a complaint about Microsoft?

Microsoft Contact Number, Email, Support, Information

www.complaintsboard.com/microsoft-b107628/contacts

What does Microsoft do?

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational technology company with headquarters in Redmond, Washington. It develops, manufactures, licenses, supports, and sells computer software, consumer electronics, personal computers, and related services.

What does Microsoft mean? - definitions

www.definitions.net/definition/Microsoft

Feedback

Microsoft

https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about

About Microsoft | Mission and Vision | Microsoft

WEBOur mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. Learn more about our company, who we are and what we value.

Tags:

Company Information

Microsoft Vision Mission Values

Mission And Vision

Wikipedia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_Microsoft

Timeline of Microsoft - Wikipedia

WEBMicrosoft launches the first version of its Windows operating system, Windows 1.0, which runs on top of MS-DOS and had a primitive GUI. 1986: February: Company: Microsoft …

Tags:

Bill Gates

Ms-Dos

Apple

Microsoft Excel

Timeline Of Microsoft

Britannica

https://www.britannica.com/topic/Micr…

Microsoft Corporation | History, Products, & Facts

WEB2 days ago · Microsoft Corporation is a leading developer of computer software, operating systems, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence applications. The company also produces its own line of hybrid tablet …

Tags:

Computing

Developer:Microsoft

Microsoft History

ThoughtCo

https://www.thoughtco.com/microsoft-…

A Short History of Microsoft - ThoughtCo

WEBJan 10, 2020 · Learn how Microsoft was founded by two childhood friends and became a global leader in software and hardware. Explore the milestones of Microsoft products, from MS-DOS and Windows to Office …

Tags:

Computing

Microsoft Corporation Founded

History Of Microsoft

Wikiwand

https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Microsoft

Microsoft - Wikiwand

WEBMicrosoft Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Redmond, Washington. Microsoft's best-known software products are …

Tags:

Wikiwand Download

Wikis

Wikiwand Ios

Wikiwand For Microsoft Edge

Wikipedia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outline_of_Microsoft

Outline of Microsoft - Wikipedia

WEBMicrosoft Corporation is a multinational corporation based in Redmond, Washington, USA and founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen that develops, manufactures, licenses, and …

Tags:

Computing

Bill Gates

Paul Allen

Microsoft Corporation Founded

Dubai



is wikipedia owned by microsoft

what is owned by microsoft

microsoft was founded by bill gates what year

microsoft company wikipedia

who was microsoft founded by

More

People also search for

is wikipedia owned by microsoft

microsoft was founded by bill gates wh…

who was microsoft founded by

what is owned by microsoft

microsoft company wikipedia

microsoft wikipedia history

Related searches for Microsoft wikipedia

is wikipedia owned by microsoft

what is owned by microsoft

microsoft was founded by bill gates what year

microsoft company wikipedia

who was microsoft founded by

microsoft wikipedia history

does microsoft own wikipedia

list of microsoft software wikipedia

Pagination

1

2

3

4

5

Next

See more

a093e9b9-90f5-a3d5-c4b8-5855e1b01f85

Microsoft

American technology company

All images

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Redmond, Washington. Microsoft's best-known software products are the Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft 365 suite of productivity applications, and the Edge web browser. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox video game consoles and the Microsoft Surface lineup of touchscreen personal computers. Microsoft ranked No. 14 in the 2022 Fortune 500 rankings of the largest United States corporations by total revenue; and it was the world's largest software maker by revenue in 2022 according to Forbes Global 2000. It is considered one of the Big Five American information technology companies, alongside Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, and Meta.

microsoft.com

Stock priceMSFT (NASDAQ) 414.65 USD  -10.57 (-2.49%)

Traded asNasdaq: MSFT · Nasdaq-100 component · DJIA component · S&P 100 component · S&P 500 component

FoundedApril 4, 1975 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, U.S.

FoundersBill Gates · Paul Allen

HeadquartersOne Microsoft Way · Redmond, Washington · U.S.

Key peopleSatya Nadella (Chairman & CEO) · Brad Smith (Vice Chairman & President) · Bill Gates (technical adviser)

Number of employees221,000 (2023)

SubsidiariesMicrosoft Japan · Microsoft India · Microsoft Egypt · GitHub · LinkedIn · Metaswitch · Nuance Communications · RiskIQ · Skype Technologies · Xamarin · Xandr

Explore more

Microsoft account

Hewlett-Packard

Intel

Nokia

Bilibili

Image:  Getty Images. Data:  Wikipedia · microsoft.com · startuptalky.com · companieshistory.com · thefactsite.com · tech25s.com · businessinsider.in
Wikipedia text under CC-BY-SA license

Feedback
Thanks!Tell us more

See more

© 2024 Microsoft
Privacy and Cookies

Legal

Advertise

About our ads

Help

Feedback

Your Privacy Choices

AllPast 24 hoursPast weekPast monthPast year
